Critical gaps (machine is still semi-manual without these)
1. Auto-fiducial search
Currently the operator must manually jog the camera over each fiducial before the servo takes over. The app knows the fiducial design coordinates and the approximate board origin — it should move the camera to the expected fiducial position automatically, then let the servo centre it. This is the single biggest remaining manual step.

2. Machine homing on startup
No homing sequence is enforced before a job. If the machine is powered on mid-travel or after an e-stop, the coordinate system is wrong. The app should send G28 on serial connect (or before job start) and block the job until homing is confirmed.

3. Z-axis surface probing
Dispense height is set manually as a fixed number. The sharpness score from the Python server is already computed but never used. The machine should probe the PCB surface (via G38.2 or a BLTouch-style probe) at job start, set Z=0 at the actual board surface, then apply the configured dispense height on top. Without this, warped boards get inconsistent dots.

4. Board presence detection
Nothing confirms a board is actually loaded before the job starts. A simple camera-based check (look for the expected board outline or brightness pattern in the field of view) or a hardware input (photoelectric sensor on the fixture) would prevent dry-runs on an empty bed.

Hardware items that need software integration
5. Ring light PWM control
Inconsistent illumination is the root cause of most Hough/Otsu detection failures. If the machine has a ring light (or can have one added), the app should control its brightness via a G-code M42 pin or a serial command. Consistent lighting = reliable vision = fewer jogs per fiducial.

6. Actual pressure feedback
Right now PSI is a commanded value — the app has no idea what pressure was actually delivered. A cheap analog pressure transducer on the syringe line, read via an ADC pin on the controller, would close the loop. The app could then flag pads where commanded vs actual pressure diverged.

7. Glue stock by weight
The current stock model is purely mathematical (volume consumed). A load cell under the syringe holder gives ground truth. The software side is mostly ready — GlueStore just needs a readActualWeight() source instead of the computed estimate.

8. Nozzle tip camera / side camera
A small fixed camera aimed at the nozzle tip (not the PCB) could detect clogging or dried glue before it ruins pads. The Python server already has the frame pipeline — adding a second camera index and a /api/nozzle_status endpoint is straightforward.

Workflow gaps (production-readiness)
9. Recipe save/load
All the settings — pressure, dwell, speed, height, bead threshold, purge duration — live in component state and reset on refresh. A simple JSON recipe system (save current settings to a named file, load it back) would let operators switch between glue types and board types without manual reconfiguration.

10. Job queue
For panel production you want to load N boards sequentially without operator interaction. The app handles one panel per job. A queue that reuses the same transform for identical boards (common in SMT lines) would enable lights-out batch runs.

11. SPC / dot quality trend
Dot verification data is collected per-pad but discarded after the job (only the CSV captures it). Aggregating dot diameter and pass/fail rate across jobs would show nozzle wear (dots shrink as the tip clogs) and let the app trigger a mandatory purge before quality falls below spec.

12. Soft axis limits enforcement
Before any G1 move the app should check that the target coordinate is inside the machine's travel envelope. Currently nothing prevents sending a move that would crash into the frame. This is especially important for the vision-snap micro-jogs.






FOR RING LIGHT - 
Option A — Implement software-only camera exposure/gain control (works right now)
The Python server already owns the camera via OpenCV. We can expose CAP_PROP_EXPOSURE, CAP_PROP_BRIGHTNESS and CAP_PROP_GAIN controls via a new API endpoint + sliders in CameraPanel. This achieves the same practical goal — consistent illumination for fiducial detection — purely in software, no hardware needed.

Option B — Stub the UI now, wire hardware later
Add the M42 brightness slider to the settings UI but disable it with a "No ring light connected" note. When you add the hardware, just enable it.





Hardware side — what's remaining on the Pi itself
That's outside the app's scope, but the Pi would need:

Camera connected (USB or CSI ribbon)
Python server code deployed and set to auto-start on boot (systemd service)
On the same local network as the Windows PC running the Electron app
The serial port (machine control) stays on the Windows PC — the Pi only handles vision








The operator types the Raspberry Pi's local network IP address in this format:
http://192.168.1.42:8000
The IP (192.168.1.42) is whatever the Pi's address is on your network. To find it, run this on the Raspberry Pi terminal:


hostname -I
It will print something like 192.168.1.42 — that's the IP to use.

So the full URL becomes: http://192.168.1.42:8000

The port 8000 stays the same — that's the port the Python Vision Server listens on. The operator just replaces the IP part with whatever hostname -I returns on their Pi.

Quick checklist before it works:

Pi and the Windows PC are on the same Wi-Fi/LAN
Python Vision Server is running on the Pi (python server.py or whatever the start command is)
The Pi's firewall allows port 8000 (sudo ufw allow 8000 if ufw is active)








Hardware — Remaining
1. Camera
A camera must be physically connected to the Pi — either:

USB webcam (simplest, plug and play)
CSI ribbon camera (Pi Camera Module — needs libcamera which may conflict with OpenCV's V4L2 approach)
Recommendation: USB webcam — works out of the box with the current server code
2. Power supply
Pi 4 needs a proper 5V/3A USB-C supply. Underpowered Pi causes random crashes mid-job.

3. Network
Pi and Windows PC must be on the same network. Options:

Ethernet cable to the same router (most reliable — no WiFi drops during a job)
WiFi (works but a dropped packet during fiducial servo loop adds latency)
Recommendation: Ethernet for a production machine
4. Mounting
The Pi needs to be physically mounted on or near the dispenser so the camera cable reaches the PCB area.







Python vision server.py file - 
For the packaged build, you'll need to include python-vision/ in extraResources in your electron-builder config so it lands in process.resourcesPath.








1. Marlin Firmware (Configuration.h & Configuration_adv.h)
This is the absolute physical limit imposed by the Arduino brain:

Max Speed Limit (X/Y): 150 mm/s (9,000 mm/min)
Max Speed Limit (Z): 15 mm/s (900 mm/min)
Homing Speed (X/Y): 40 mm/s (2,400 mm/min) — (This is the speed it travels when you click auto-home)
Homing Speed (Z): 10 mm/s (600 mm/min)
LCD Panel Manual Jog Speed: 50 mm/s (3,000 mm/min)
Acceleration (X/Y): 200 mm/s² — (This is what I just lowered from 500 to stop the jerking)
Acceleration (Z): 50 mm/s²
2. React App (AutomatedDispensingPanel.jsx & dispensingSequence.js)
This is the speed the app requests the machine to move at during different operations. (It will never exceed the Marlin max limits above):

UI Jog Buttons (X/Y): 2,000 mm/min (33.3 mm/s) — (When you click the on-screen jog arrows)
UI Jog Buttons (Z): 500 mm/min (8.3 mm/s)
Camera "Go To Pad" Speed: 4,000 to 6,000 mm/min (66 to 100 mm/s)
Automated Job Travel Speed (X/Y): 3,000 mm/min (50 mm/s) — (Speed it travels between components while dispensing)
Automated Job Z-Plunge Speed: 600 mm/min (10 mm/s) — (Speed it lowers the nozzle to dispense)
Continuous Bead Dispensing Speed: 500 mm/min (8.3 mm/s) — (Speed it drags the nozzle while glue flows)